Add apex_2025 benchmark (#1724)
NVIDIA-NeMo/Gym: benchmarks/apex_2025/README.md

# APEX 2025

Math problems from MathArena's APEX 2025 benchmark, sourced from
`MathArena/apex_2025` on HuggingFace. This benchmark is intended as a
newer alternative to `apex_shortlist`.

## Verification

> Reuses the `math_with_judge` resource server in **symbolic-only** mode
> (`should_use_judge: false`) to mirror NeMo Skills' `eval_type=math`
> default for this benchmark. The HuggingFace `math-verify` library does
> symbolic equivalence of the model-extracted `\boxed{...}` answer against
> `expected_answer`.

Reviewer: Small wording nit: "to mirror NeMo Skills' `eval_type=math` default **for this benchmark**" reads as if Skills has an `apex_2025` benchmark, but it doesn't (Skills only has `apex-shortlist`). Suggest phrasing it as matching Skills' default math eval generally:

```suggestion
Reuses the `math_with_judge` resource server in **symbolic-only** mode
(`should_use_judge: false`), matching NeMo Skills' default math eval
(`eval_type=math` with no judge). The HuggingFace `math-verify` library does
symbolic equivalence of the model-extracted `\boxed{...}` answer against
`expected_answer`.
```

## Prompt

User-only prompt, character-for-character match with NeMo Skills'
`generic/math.yaml`:

```
Solve the following math problem. Make sure to put the answer (and only answer) inside \boxed{}.

<question>
```

## Data preparation

```bash
ng_prepare_benchmark '+config_paths=[benchmarks/apex_2025/config.yaml]'
```

Writes `data/apex_2025_benchmark.jsonl` with one row per problem:
`{"problem_idx": 1, "source": "...", "question": "...", "expected_answer": "..."}`.

## Running servers

```bash
config_paths="responses_api_models/vllm_model/configs/vllm_model.yaml,\
benchmarks/apex_2025/config.yaml"
ng_run "+config_paths=[$config_paths]"
```

## Collecting rollouts

```bash

> ng_collect_rollouts \
>     +agent_name=apex_2025_math_with_judge_simple_agent \
>     +input_jsonl_fpath=benchmarks/apex_2025/data/apex_2025_benchmark.jsonl \
>     +output_jsonl_fpath=results/apex_2025_rollouts.jsonl \
>     +num_repeats=4

Reviewer: This command crashes when run as written:

`KeyError: 'responses_create_params'` at `nemo_gym/rollout_collection.py:274`.

`prepare.py` writes raw rows (no `responses_create_params`), and `ng_collect_rollouts` reads `prompt_config` only from its own CLI overrides — not from `config.yaml`'s `prompt_config:` field (that one is consumed by `ng_run`). So with no template to apply it errors out. Adding `+prompt_config=benchmarks/prompts/generic/math.yaml` fixes it (verified locally end-to-end against a hosted endpoint).

```suggestion
ng_collect_rollouts \
    +agent_name=apex_2025_math_with_judge_simple_agent \
    +input_jsonl_fpath=benchmarks/apex_2025/data/apex_2025_benchmark.jsonl \
    +output_jsonl_fpath=results/apex_2025_rollouts.jsonl \
    +prompt_config=benchmarks/prompts/generic/math.yaml \
    +num_repeats=4
```

Reviewer: also, this should be updated to use the new `gym ...` cli rather than the outdated `ng_collect_rollouts` cli
